Welcome back recruit.
We've already discussed how you can store Python data objects using a list or a dictionary.
Now let's learn about tuples tuples are actually very similar to a list.
They're ordered sequences of objects just like IList.
However there's two key differences.
One is that they use a slightly different syntax than the list they use parentheses instead of square
brackets.
Here you can see an example of a tuple.
We call this variable my tuple and it's equal to in parentheses one comma to come a three.
So very similar to a list and syntax except for using parentheses instead of square brackets.
The other major difference and this is the most fundamental one is that tuples are what we call immutable
so mutability refers to the ability to change or alter comes from the word mutate or mutation.
Once you've assigned an object to a position in a tuple you cannot reassign it in a list.
You could do this re-assignment.
However in the tuple you cannot.
Let's explore how to work with tuples in Python by loading up a Jupiter notebook.
Let's begin by creating an example tuple I'll say my tuple is equal to and it's going to be really similar
to a list except now are using parentheses here.
We'll say one comma to comma three.
And if I check the type of this object my tuple returns back that it's a tuple type and just like a
list.
You can also use mixed data types so we could say T is another tuple where we have a string mixin with
an integer mixed in a float and tuple doesn't mind.
And you can use indexing or slicing just like you would have a list.
So if I wanted that letter A.
I could just use that bracket annotation just like we use the full list.
However the key difference here is the immutability of a tuple.
So I'm going to create my list one two three let's check the type of my list confirm that it in fact
is a list.
So it is.
And then we still have my original tuple.
One two three.
One is a list.
One is a tuple.
So let's imagine that I wanted to reassign the first item in my list.
So that is the item in the location 0 to be something new.
Well I can easily do that by saying my list at 0 is equal to new.
And then if I check out my list now I have new come to come.
Three if I tried the same thing with the tuple object that created I'm going to get an error and if
I send you here.
It's going to say type error.
The tuple object does not support item assignment.
And that means that I can't add in or replace the objects that are already inside the tuple.
You'll also notice that once I've created that tuple and I check out the available methods it's just
count an index.
There's no way I can append something else that you say hey tuple has no object or the tuple object
has an attribute.
Append.
So that means that there's really only two methods you can do for tuple and that is indexing and counting.
So I will create a tuple object A B C and let's say again.
So I have ABC and a if I wanted to find out the first occurrence of B I can say C index pass and B in
order to turn back the location of the first time B occurs inside the tuple.
If I want to count how many times an object occurs inside this tuple I can say T and then use the count
method and ask it how many times does a string a show up in the tuple and it returns back that it shows
up twice.
Now you may be wondering why would you ever use tuples since they have this immutability aspect to them.
You should use a tuple for collections or sequences that shouldn't be changed things like the dates
of the year or user information where you want the order to remain the same.
And let's actually show in example of this recall that we were creating a dictionary so say a has the
value 1 and B he's going to have the value to.
So I have this dictionary when I called the items of my dictionary.
I got back this lists are a sort of brackets of tuples.
And the reason reason tuples here is because this allows me to know whenever the method or whatever
code that is behind the scenes of this items called is using tuples because it knows that this order
can't be switched around.
So are you using tuples when you want to make sure that you don't have any changes occurring.
So this is basically almost like a slight security feature of your data type in the sense that you're
not going to be able to accidentally re-index something and then reassign it here I know that the first
item in the tuples are going to be the key and the second item in the tuple is going to be the value
associated with it.
And there's lots of built in functions and methods in Python that return lists of tuple items as we've
seen here and later on when we discuss for loops.
We'll see how we can use something called tuple and a packing to work with these functions and methods
that return back lists of tuple objects.
For now just keep in mind that tuples.
The main difference here is that syntax wise you're constructing them with a parentheses and that they
do not support item re-assignment they're immutable objects.
I'll see you at the next lesson recruit.